1. Access control for buildings, areas, storage places, banks' vaults and lockers.
2. Access control for technology, secure networks, and resources.
3. Detect unauthorized personnel.
4. Securely register and manage visitors.
5. Provide real-time information about visitors in high-profile buildings.
6. Identify men in female-reserved coaches or women-only areas.
7. Visualize building occupancy and peak hours and determine foot traffic patterns.
8. Identify individuals approaching homes for example through smart doorbells.
9. Trigger an alarm when unidentified individuals enter a home.
10. Enable unlocking devices and apps.
11. Enable unlocking cars and driving them.
12. Notify owners if someone attempts to steal their car.
13. Track worker and student attendance.
14. Check if students and workers comply with regulations.
15. Monitor and track students' activities and performance to aid university examinations.
16. Identify demographic attributes of individuals, including gender, age, ethnicity, and sexual orientation.
17. Perform profiling to identify patterns and characteristics of individuals or groups.
18. Implement targeted recognition systems that customize responses or services based on a person's ethnicity or gender.
19. Customize advertisements and promotions for targeted marketing.
20. Identify individuals' shopping habits for personalized discounts and offerings.
21. Evaluate consumer satisfaction.
22. Monitor wait times and moods in check-out or customer service lines.
23. Personalized recommendations, surroundings, and services for smart homes, automotive environments, and travel industry.
24. Identify and track criminals, suspects, stalkers, or terrorists.
25. Recording an arrested individual's facial information.
26. Gathering, analyzing, and interpreting evidence from a crime scene or incident.
27. Register traffic violations by rental transport users.
28. Establish a unified penalty system, collecting fines for various violations such as fare dodging.
29. Define groups of people and create whitelists for VIPs and blacklists for unwanted individuals.
30. Compare individuals against watchlists containing names, identifiers, or attributes of known individuals of interest or potential risks.
31. Prevent child exploitation and abduction.
32. Search for and identify missing persons.
33. Identify abusive law enforcement officers.
34. Implement face tagging in images.
35. Create digital photo books.
36. Alert individuals when photographs with their faces are posted online.
37. Detect and report inappropriate pictures using facial recognition and pattern analysis.
38. Group photos based on individuals present.
39. Conduct face scans to search for specific individuals in pictures.
40. Use selfies to find users' doppelganger in a database of recognized paintings.
41. Recognize when fake profiles use someone else's face.
42. Offer friend suggestions on social media platforms.
43. Prevent online dating fraud.
44. Enable face authentication-based mobile payments and other banking services.
45. Compare a customer's face during ATM usage with database to reduce fraudulent activities.
46. Payments on public transport (E.g. metro trains, public buses, toll gates).
47. Identify patients and facilitate check-in and other processes for patients, for example, provide notifications to respective doctors, generate e-prescriptions for patients, update recent improvements in a patient's case study.
48. Identify healthcare staff.
49. Track staff and patients to keep a record of the movement and presence of both staff members and patients within a healthcare facility.
50. Streamline and manage medicine distribution in healthcare settings.
51. Diagnose or support detection of diseases in individuals.
52. Retrieve critical information of people in emergencies, such as their blood group.
53. Conduct real-time mental health tests.
54. Provide automatic floor selection in elevators for elderly and individuals with disabilities.
55. Assist individuals with impairments by identifying their friends and people, providing reminders of names, and relevant information about them.
56. Assist individuals with visual impairments in taking photos.
57. Initiate robot operations only when it recognizes an operator in its workspace.
58. Enable assistive robots to recognize individuals in a home environment.
59. Facilitate voter identification processes.
60. Provide tailored learning experiences to suit individual needs.
61. Create multimedia content using facial recognition.
62. Identify and differentiate between various characters and actors in movies, making it highly beneficial for content discovery and delivery platforms that seek to provide content based on specific characters or actors.
63. Overlay cosmetic changes for users.
64. Use photo and video filters and special beautification effects.
65. Streamline check-ins and boarding and reduce waiting times at airports.
66. Identity travelers at border crossings to automate border crossing procedures (traveler identification, biometric passport, passport-checking).
67. Verify documents, such as passports, visas, and driver's licenses.
68. Identify and verify people in train stations and stadiums.
69. Detect fatigue in individuals.
70. Detect emotions in individuals.
71. Facilitate recruitment processes by informing hiring decisions and help job interviewers to view candidate’s previous records.
72. Help people recognize faces by using smart glasses to display names and social network activities of identified people.
73. Monitor and surveil people.
74. Facilitate tourists in meeting new people.
75. Liveness checks that helps prevent hackers from impersonating a client.